Hey, everyone, this first section,
as we've mentioned before,
we'll be talking about a software stack.
The software stack is actually also
known as an application stack at times.
Normally, it's applied for
web app developers,
but honestly, we could probably adapt
it to anything else, a regular,
your own at-home apps or
say some kind of other building.
>> What about the application that we're
gonna build in this course, can we?
>> Yeah, exactly, yeah we can.
We can also apply this concept.
So, the three major biggest parts
of the software stack would be
starting with the frontend.
So, frontend is the client side,
it's where a front end developer will be
working on the UI or UX, which is user
interface, so how the GUI looks and
how it works, how the user
interacts with software, basically.
The goal of the UX is to try to make user
satisfaction as high as it's possible.
Because why would you put a button
in one corner that doesn't work?
What's the point of that button, right?
It doesn't make any sense.
>> [LAUGH] Yeah, I'd be pissed off.
>> [CROSSTALK]
>> That's bad front end development.
So, next, the opposite of that would
be the backend which is more, say,
server sided.
Or something that the client or the user
doesn't actually see, necessarily.
That could be some kind of algorithm,
or some kind of data structure
implementations that are required
to make everything work.
It's like a calculator,
you'd see the buttons on the screen, but
you don't see how it does the
multiplication in the background, right?
>> Or the code it's using or
anything, yeah.
>> Maybe like in the computer
of the calculator it just
stores addition tables, so it does a look
up instead of actually adding the numbers.
>> Oh yeah, you would have no idea.
>> You'd have no idea,
that's what back end is.
And there's full stack where you
basically work on both the front and
the back end and it's.
The full stack developer will basically
see like how everything connects.
They'll be the guy that
bridges everything.
But to be fair, all of these three scopes,
you'll need to know both what
the back end and the front end do.
But when you tend to be a front developer,
you mostly focus on the front end.
>> So, I guess unless you're working on
a team throughout these last courses,
you've kind of been front and back end.
>> So you've been the full stack, right?
>> You've been the full stack developer,
yeah.
>> Yeah, up on the screen,
we have a little diagram of
a complete software stack, basically.
But for our purposes, we're mostly
focused on, say, the GUI, the UI, and
some of the algorithms that are needed to
make your code work, or your programs run.
>> Awesome.
>> Yeah, that's it.
And also, I'll go over one quick example.
So, say you wanna build a Boggle game,
right?
>> We gotta explain what Boggle is first,
right,
cuz maybe people don't know what Boggle.
>> I feel like everyone
should know what Boggle is.
>> [LAUGH]
>> But, so
anyway, if you don't know what Boggle is,
it's basically you have a little board
with some randomized letters on top and
the goal is to try to make as many words
as you can using the letters possible.
By making a path.
So, you start at one corner and go around,
make sure it's a possible word.
So, like Scrabble in another way.
In some way.
So front end developer would
work on how the board looks,
what you can click on,
how the lines look, everything to that,
and sometimes maybe you need to make a
login screen with a point system, whatnot.
Well, the back end would say hold how the
dictionary's stored because you wanna be
able to look up words really fast
to make sure it's a legal word.
And not some like weird
word like Z-Z-X-Y-D-
>> Maybe it could pull from like an online
dictionary, too.
>> Yeah, exactly, do that.
>> So, it's possible that, and
the user wouldn't know, right?
>> Yeah.
>> That's why it's back end.
>> Yeah, if you have a username then you
probably just have to have some way to
store passwords with some kind
of security, so it's back end.
If you have important stuff you wanna keep
track of who's winning, who's losing, etc.
And finally, like we said before, full
stack just takes a look at all these and
they work on all points of the project.
>> Cool, I like that example, nice.
>> With that, that covers basically
everything you need to know about
the software stack.
>> I think we might talk about it
a little bit more obviously as we
kinda go through this course.
But yeah.
>> So
basically it just applies all
your application development.
So, with that,
we'll see you in the next video.